[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When people think about the
FBI's greatest UFO document,
a lot of times you hear
about a 1950 document,
sometimes known as
the Guy Hottel memo,
in which there is a
discussion about alien beings,
alien bodies being acquired.
It actually is the most searched
document on the FBI's website.
But I would argue there's a
better document, a stronger
document that absolutely
shows just how deep
and how incredible this whole
subject had gotten for the FBI.
Whereas the memo
about alien bodies
has been a matter of a lot
of dispute as to what exactly
they were really
talking about, what
I'm about to describe
to you, there's
no matter of dispute whatsoever.
It's a memo dated
January 31, 1949.
And just to put yourself in
the position of all of this,
you have to keep in
mind, by early 1949,
the public had been told
for a couple of years
already that there was nothing
to this UFO nonsense, all
this business.
Just forget about
it, put it away,
don't even think about it.
And yet, what we now know--
absolutely thank you,
Freedom of Information Act,
for getting this information
out to us-- is the following.
The FBI was tracking
very carefully
what was going on
in the military
and their investigation
into getting
to the bottom of these UFOs.
And in this particular
document from January 31, 1949,
the FBI discusses how Office
of Naval Intelligence,
the Army's G-2--
that's their
intelligence branch--
and the Air Force's Office
of Special investigation,
all three key intelligence
units of the Army, Navy,
and the Air Force, that
they had all recently
met to discuss this
matter of UFOs.
And this FBI memo was being
sent to J. Edgar Hoover, head
of the FBI, to report.
And what did this memo say?
Well, it said a few
things, but let me
read to you the key statement.
"Army intelligence has
recently said that the matter
of unidentified aircraft or
unidentified aerial phenomena,
otherwise known as flying
discs, flying saucers,
and balls of fire is considered
top secret by intelligence
officers of both the Army
and the Air Force's."
My opinion-- this memo is
every bit as extraordinary
as any UFO memo
that's out there.
Again, the government had been
telling people for a long time
already that there
was nothing to it.
And yet, here we
have an FBI memo
going to the boss of the
FBI, J. Edgar Hoover,
stating that the
military had determined
that this subject of UFOs
is considered top secret.
Why?
And by the way, why top secret?
And still, all of the
academic community to this day
ignores the importance of this.
And if UFOs are silly nonsense,
and hallucinations, and hoaxes,
and so forth, why
would the military
call this a top
secret phenomenon?
Well, fortunately, this
memo explains exactly why.
One of the reasons is because of
all of the incredible sightings
by military personnel
of objects that were
described as simply impossible.
The memo, for example,
discusses the famous Eastern
Airlines' sighting from the
summer of 1948 in which two
commercial pilots saw
a cigar-shaped or maybe
rocket-shaped object
zoom right past them.
But this wasn't a rocket,
because this object
was maneuvering.
It moved straight, horizontally
and then straight up.
And by the way,
the speed estimated
by all the calculations
and in this memo--
they state 2,700 miles per hour.
2,700 miles per hour.
In 1949, we had
nothing that was going
to be able to move at
that type of a speed.
This is all taken
very seriously.
You can read the
words of the memo.
It's very obvious that
this is a serious matter.
But that's just the beginning.
The FBI memo goes on
to talk about sightings
of an unexplained
phenomenon over Los Alamos.
Now, Los Alamos, New Mexico is
where all of the top brainpower
was relating to atomic
technology, nuclear weapons,
and everything connected to it.
When unknown objects are
hanging out over Los Alamos,
day after day, after
day, which they were,
then that's very serious.
In fact, this memo discusses
the dates in December of 1948,
quite recent in the
memo's timeline,
when these objects were seen--
December 5, 6, 7, 8, the 11th,
the 13th, the 14th, the 28th.
They'd been seen all throughout
the month of December.
And what were these things?
Well, they were noted in
this document being observed
by intelligence officers,
by scientists, by security
personnel, by private citizens.
Very serious.
These were spherical shape.
They were diamond shaped.
They had self-illumination.
They were maneuvering
at incredible speeds,
a minimum of three and
a half miles per second,
a maximum over 12 miles per
second, a mean speed that they
determine of about seven and a
half miles per second or 27,000
miles per hour.
27,000 miles per hour.
Just to keep in mind, top
speed of an aircraft in 1948,
'49, we're talking a couple
of hundred miles per hour--
400, maybe top of the line--
500 miles per hour.
What goes at 27,000
miles per hour?
This is very similar to the more
recent stories we get of, say,
the Tic Tac UFO
which, similarly,
this is 21st century UFOs,
has been arguably going
at comparable speeds, upwards
of 10,000-plus miles per hour.
But here, you have, back
in 1949, a memo by the FBI
describing the military's
investigation of these UFOs
traveling at similar speeds--
20,000-plus miles per hour.
And we really have
to ask ourselves,
what could possibly
have been able to do
those types of speeds?
And this memo is even better.
It goes on to describe
not simply the speeds,
but the maneuverability of
these objects and distinctly
notes that on at
least two occasions,
the object maneuvered
horizontally and then dropped
in a very radical,
vertical manner that
defied any kind of explanation.
Also, in other cases in
the Los Alamos sightings,
we know these objects went
horizontally and then ascended
upward.
So we're in some really,
really tricky territory
here in looking at
these sightings.
You've got unknown objects
maneuvering in ways
that no one can
explain over some
of the United States' most
sensitive installations
imaginable.
So that's a matter of
very serious concern
as anyone could realize.
This memo goes on, to try
to provide explanations
for what was being observed,
but they really come up empty.
There's just nothing there.
The possibility of the
Russians, the Soviets is raised.
And frankly, no one believed it.
No one believed it then.
No one believes it now.
When you look back
after all these years,
it's not realistic to think
that the Russians were creating
these incredibly advanced
objects that were hanging out
over the airspace of Los
Alamos back in the late 1940s.
And indeed, the analysts
back then didn't believe it.
They looked at other types
of bizarre, natural types
of phenomena.
Some talk about cosmic rays,
whatever that would even
mean as causing this.
But frankly, even
they realize there's
no scientific explanation
to account for what
was going on at Los Alamos.
That is why the document
was called Protection
of Vital Installations.
This was a serious matter.
And what you really get in
this three-page typed FBI memo
is a bunch of analysts
talking about this
as a very serious
matter and throwing up
their hands in the sense that
they had no idea what this is.
And by early 1949, we're
in the era where the Air
Force particularly
made it clear,
you're not supposed to talk
about the extraterrestrial
hypothesis that's out.
It was already made very, very
clear to all these analysts.
And so what options
did they really
have, except to
do whatever mental
gymnastics necessary to avoid
dealing with the obvious?
And the obvious, then
as now, is that someone
had some kind of technology
that was not supposed to exist,
that was vastly beyond anything
we could bring to the table
and was investigating,
presumably,
our highest, most important
nuclear installations.
Well, you fill in the
blanks after that.
I mean, anyone with
any common sense
and intelligence
looking at this is
going to realize that if we're
going to explain this in terms
of our civilization-- but
we have a lot of explanation
to do here.
Because we don't have any
science to explain this.
We don't even have any
candidates to pin this on.
It's not the Russians.
It's not the Brits.
It's not the French.
It's not the Chinese.
Is it black budget American?
Well, let's think about that.
We don't have any evidence to
this day of any black budget
American group that could
be responsible for this.
To this day, there's
no candidates.
In terms of technology and
in terms of bureaucracy,
it's just not there.
And these guys back then were
scratching their head every bit
as much, but no one wanted to
offer the obvious explanation.
Because even by
1949, people were
put in the position of having
to walk around the obvious,
because no one was
allowed to go there.
Back in 1949, we
had UFOs every bit
as advanced as the so-called
Tic Tac UFO of 2004.
And we need to
ask ourselves, who
could possibly have been
responsible for that?
In my view, the most
logical explanation
is that it's someone,
some group beyond our own.
That's what I think.
You can think what you want.
But I would encourage
everyone who
thinks about this to be guided
by the available evidence
and take it from there.
The Russians were considered as
possible candidates for this,
but no one was really taking
that explanation seriously.
The document did
spend some time trying
to explain why
meteorites were not
the explanation for
these sightings.
So that was definitely
looked into and rejected.
Quite a bit of
discussion on that
as well as looking
into other types
of scientific,
natural explanations.
But again, no one really
had any viable theory,
not then and not now.
And what we can say, even
beyond this particular memo,
is that the discussions
going on at Los Alamos
throughout 1948 and 1949
were very intense and very
high level.
They included some of the most
prominent scientists in the US
military-industrial
complex at the time,
including people like Dr.
Edward Teller, for example,
the inventor of
the hydrogen bomb,
and portrayed most notably by
Peter Sellers in the movie "Dr.
Strangelove" in the 1960s.
But there were actually lots
of highest level scientists
who were engaged in trying to
figure this phenomenon out.
And not just scientists,
but all the intelligence
agencies met again
and again and again
throughout 1949 and beyond
to try to figure this out.
As far as we know, we don't
have a formal conclusion
to this day.
[MUSIC PLAYING]